10 Star Wars Fan Theories That Will Change
The Way You See Everything
Every fandom has its theories, but Star Wars
fans are on another level.
Armed with decades of discussion and a mountain
of detailed information and expanded-universe
stories, the Star Wars fan community tears
into every inconsistency, every seeming mistake,
and every tiny thread that seems to be a bit
loose in pursuit of secret agendas, new angles,
and surprising explanations for seemingly
inexplicable behavior in the movies.
While most of them don't hold water, some
are so off-the-wall they just might work.
Here are 10 Star Wars fan theories that will
change the way you see everything.
The Phantom Menace - Maybe Jar-Jar wasn't
useless?
Almost nobody likes Jar-Jar Binks, the bizarre
CGI sidekick character from The Phantom Menace.
Phantom has plenty of problems, but Jar-Jar
is its primary lightning rod for fan hatred.
One thing people particularly despise is the
Gungan's uselessness.
He doesn't do very much that couldn't have
been done better by somebody else... or does
he?
One of the weirdest fan theories about Jar-Jar
is that he's not a buffoon at all: he just
acts like one because he's actually an agent
for the evil Sith.
There's a surprising amount of circumstantial
evidence to suggest that he's sensitive to
the Force: his combat moves seem Force-assisted,
and he waves his hands a lot when he talks
- the perfect camouflage for hiding a Jedi
mind trick.
It sounds like a stretch at first, but the
more you think about it, the more plausible
it seems.
A New Hope - Agent Robot and Agent Wookiee
Once a simple stand-alone story, A New Hope
has gotten more complicated over the years,
because it now fits into a much larger arc.
Case in point: during Revenge of the Sith,
we see C-3PO lose all of his memories, which
explains why he can't tell Luke anything useful
19 years later, in A New Hope.
R2-D2, however, undergoes no such memory wipe.
Neither does Chewbacca, who was last seen
in Episode III, right in the thick of the
action.
So why don't they warn Luke, or give him more
information about his father?
Simple, says one fan theory: Chewie and R2
are Rebel Alliance agents.
They can't tell Luke anything because they're
tasked with getting him off Tattooine and
into the fold of the Alliance, without arousing
any Imperial suspicion.
They can't blab too much because it could
jeopardize their important mission.
Revenge of the Sith - Vader can't express
himself
Everyone remembers the painfully melodramatic
NOOOOOOO that Anakin Skywalker - now reborn
as Darth Vader for the first time - yells
when he's told of Padme's death at the end
of Revenge of the Sith.
It's one of the cheesiest moments in modern
film.
Or is it?
One crazy fan theory holds that the silliness
of Vader's cry isn't a result of unfortunate
stage direction, but actually happens because
his new, computer-assisted voice can't adequately
process all the emotion he's trying to express.
We know for a fact that Vader's bionic mask
changes his voice - he sounds very different
with the mask off, both as young Anakin and
in his final moments during Return of the
Jedi.
It's not a big leap to imagine that the software
that helps him speak might have trouble figuring
out how to parse an anguished cry.
The scene is still unintentionally funny no
matter which way you cut it.
But in light of this theory, it's a lot more
poignant, too.
The Force Awakens - Finn is in tune with the
Force
Force users came from all races and backgrounds.
Even Jabba the Hutt can resist the Jedi mind
trick.
So why couldn't Finn, a former Trooper with
the First Order, be sensitive to it, too?
It's not hard to imagine a soldier awakening
to a new power after some life-jarring event.
When Supreme Leader Snoke tells Kylo Ren that
there's been an awakening, we've only seen
one character do anything remarkable yet:
Finn, who's elected to leave the First Order
despite the considerable danger and difficulty
of doing so.
Finn also seems to feel the destruction of
the Hosnian System from a great distance,
similar to the way Obi-Wan felt Alderaan being
destroyed in A New Hope.
Only someone in tune with the Force is able
to do that.
He might not be the next Jedi knight, but
Finn very well may have more power than anyone
expects.
The Phantom Menace – Qui-Gon Jinn, secret
Sith master
Jedi knight Qui-Gon Jinn is killed off early
in Episode 1, and though we see him occasionally
in the following two movies, he never becomes
a major player after that.
But was that by design?
One fan theory holds that Qui-Gon was actually
working with, or for, the Sith.
This theory is mostly based on his track record.
It's no secret that Qui-Gon is not quite trusted
by the rest of the Jedi Council.
He did, after all, train under Count Dooku,
who later went on to become Dark Lord of the
Sith.
He insists on training Anakin, over Yoda's
objections, and leaves Obi-Wan Kenobi to finish
Anakin's training before Obi-Wan is ready.
And according to Star Wars Legends, Qui-Gon
once had another student, Xanatos, who also
turned to the Dark Side.
In short, Qui-Gon seems to wreck things for
the Jedi wherever he goes.
It's not a stretch to think he had an active
interest in driving Anakin into the arms of
the Sith.
A New Hope - Luke was hidden in plain sight
Remember how Luke Skywalker was hidden from
his father on the remote desert world of Tattooine?
And remember how Luke's father, Anakin Skywalker,
actually grew up for years on the same planet?
How does that make sense?
If you want to hide something from the enemy,
you don't put it in their childhood home - unless,
as this crazy fan theory suggests, that person
hates their childhood home to much they'd
never go back to it.
Anakin lived on Tattooine as a slave.
He never liked the planet, and once expressed
to Padme that he never wanted to go back there
if he could help it.
Worst of all, it's the place where his mother
was killed.
The whole planet is filled with nothing but
despair, hopelessness, and anger for Darth
Vader.
It stands to reason, then, that it's the last
place he'd ever choose to go - even to look
for his long-lost son.
E.T.
The Extra-terrestrial – ET, also a secret
Sith master (?)
George Lucas and Steven Spielberg have been
friends for a long time, so it's no surprise
that they've both included nods to each others'
work in their films.
The 1982 family classic E.T. the Extra-terrestrial
features a scene where E.T. appears to personally
recognize Yoda, in the form of a small child
who's dressed as the Jedi master for Halloween.
Years later, in Star Wars Episode 1, a delegation
of aliens who seem to be of the same race
as E.T. can be seen in the Senate.
Most people would chalk this up to a couple
of fun Easter eggs between old pals, but one
theory holds that the connection should be
taken seriously.
E.T. seems to wield magical powers including
levitation and healing, almost all of which
can be explained by the use of the Force.
And sure, he could be a Jedi, too, but Sith
Lord is more entertaining somehow – at least
as long as he doesn't Force choke anybody.
A New Hope - Boba Fett killed Owen and Beru
Lars
This would seem like a stretch if not for
the Special Edition re-releases of the original
Star Wars trilogy.
With the addition of their new and enhanced
scenes, Boba Fett now makes a brief appearance
on Tattooine around the same time that Luke
is making his way to Mos Eisley.
We already know Fett will do the Empire's
dirty work for the right fee.
Given his penchant for disintegrating people
- Darth Vader specifically warns him not to
disintegrate his Imperial bounties in Empire
- and the vaporized state of Luke's aunt and
uncle when he finds them, it's not inconceivable
that he was given the grim task of torching
the homestead in Luke's absence.
Neither Sand people nor Stormtroopers are
known to vaporize bodies down to their bones.
That leaves everybody's favorite bounty hunter
to do the deed... presumably to help finance
his 'Vette.
Return of the Jedi - Ewoks suffer the Curse
of Kintave1
On one hand, Ewoks live in tree houses, have
funny voices, and look like stuffed animals
come to life.
On the other hand, their resistance efforts
are lethally effective in foiling the Empire's
plans on Endor.
Using logs, rocks, and wooden spears, the
Ewoks help bring the Imperial forces to their
knees.
But before all that, we're introduced to the
Ewoks when they capture the heroes and prepare
to cook and eat them at a feast in honor of
their new god, C-3PO.
As silly as this scene is, it implies that
eating humanoid flesh is not totally outside
the realm of normalcy for Ewoks.
Of course, C-3PO and the crew manage to escape
their grisly fate, but looking at all the
empty Stormtrooper helmets in the Ewok village
at the end of the film, we suspect the Empire's
cloned soldiers weren't as lucky.
We'll skip the meatloaf at that potluck, thanks.
The Force Awakesn - Rey is Palpatine's granddaughter
Rey, the protagonist of The Force Awakens,
could be related to a number of important
people in the Star Wars universe.
Fan theories abound, but our new favorite,
suggested by culinary wizard and Star Wars
super-fan J. Kenji Lopez-Alt, is possibly
the most compelling: Rey is Emperor Palpatine's
granddaughter.
Think about it: the word "rey" means "king"
or "ruler" in Spanish, and the Star Wars series
has always been known for characters whose
names evoke the roles they play.
She's also the only Star Wars character aside
from Palpatine to use a stabbing motion with
her lightsaber.
Both Rey and Palpatine use the move multiple
times, but nobody else ever does.
The list of evidence is surprisingly robust,
and it would make for a truly crazy twist.
Which Star Wars theories are your favorites?
Do you know any even crazier fan theories
that start to make more sense the more you
think about them?
We'd love to hear about them!
Give this video a thumbs-up and give us your
wildest ideas in the comments below.
And as always, be sure to subscribe to CBR
for more forceful videos about movies, comic
books, video games, and a whole lot more.
1 This is a Space Ghost Coast to Coast reference.
“Kintave” is pronounced “kin-TAH-vee.”
I included it because nerds (like me) love
a cross-IP reference.
However, if you think it's too obscure for
our viewers to get a kick out of it, please
feel free to change it to “Ewoks eat their
enemies.”
---------------
----------------------------------------